# Identifying Subgroups of Breast Cancer Patients Through Encodings Decoding Networks #
(still work in progress)

Some of the recent developments in machine learning enables us to study clusters in high dimensional data in novel ways. Whereas conventional clustering methods assume linear relationship between the features and produce similarities based on the general variance of the data, it is possible to use neural networks to capture nonlinearities and produce similarity measurements that maximally explain the distance of the data with regard to selected outcomes that are predicted by the network. This project aims to utilize these methods and investigate subgroups within the breast cancer patients and patients with high risk for developing breast cancer.\\

To that and, we will be using anonymised versions of the Breast Cancer Database IRB#09-0316 and the High Risk Breast Cancer Consortium IRB#07-965 that have been collected by the NYU Cancer Center. IRB#09-0316 Database is a longitudinal study on all newly diagnosed breast cancer patients who are treated at NYU Langone Health (NYULH).  All men and women ≥18 years of age, undergoing definitive breast cancer surgery and treatment at NYULH are eligible to enroll in the IRB-approved database. We will study the subgroups that are defined by ther demographics and relevant clinical information belonging to patients and will try to identify clusters that have different responses to different treatments. IRB#07-965 Database is data registry specific to women at high risk for developing breast cancer. Women are defined as high risk based on the following criteria: One or more first-degree relatives with pre-menopausal breast cancer, two or more first-degree relatives with post-menopausal breast cancer, a known BRCA1/2 mutation, p53, PTEN, CHEK, or PALB2 mutation, a family history of breast and ovarian cancer from the same side of the maternal or paternal family, two or more relatives with ovarian/fallopian tube/peritoneal cancer from the same side of the maternal or paternal family, male breast cancer in the family, a biopsy-proven history of atypical ductal or lobular hyperplasia and/or lobular carcinoma in situ. In this project we will work on identifying different subgroups within this heterogeneous high-risk population, and study effects of risk factors within these subgroups.

